Les Paul is responsible for creating
this instrument that half of us wouldn't
be here without him he's the father of
the electric guitar he's the father of
multitrack recording obviously none of
us would be doing what we're doing
without those achievements he is a
amazing jazz guitar player he's an
amazing technician he invented the
guitar which I've been playing ever
since I started we always managed to
come back to playing our personal
favorite which is one of his genius
guitars that he made this particular
favorite is a 1959 what they refer to as
Les Paul's famous sunburst model and as
infamous as it might have been during
its inception it's become a staple and
without it we don't even want to think
about it les has been a friend of mine
about 20 years now he really really gave
me an overview of what his career was
about now look at the long run and don't
be so freaked out about now and this
that the other thing we talk business
talk music and really became friends and
that night was the first night he met
and he gave me this unbelievable
beautiful Les Paul and he signed it to
me and he said son here's the sword go
cut the when I first picked up a
guitar I knew that was it
and the good news is the first guitar
that I the hell was was tethered with a
cord over to an amplifier so it was a
real hot rod and it's been that way ever
since as I've only really had about four
main guitars that's all I've ever really
made it I got tons of guitars but
there's really four key ones and they
all have a certain kind of thing to them
there's the guitar that I worried
appetite with which is my main recording
it's our that I've got the Les Paul
mystery child in my video which is my
main live guitar now I've got the gold
top which is for it which I used live
and in the studio for ballads and things
that have a long sort of sustaining
nature of your solos and then the fourth
one would be the double neck because
it's got the
without west palm there would be no Les
Paul guitar without a Les Paul guitar
we're not really sure what we'd be left
with but here we are